We talked about faking an API out.
So essentially we create our fake
API called pingInventory, and
then in our action,
we're pinging that specific inventory.
And then we're calling context.commit
on a specific mutation.
Of course, the difference from
what we talked about before and
showed earlier was that we're
passing specific data to a mutation.
So far we haven't done this, we just
assumed that we were gonna do something.
But when you're fetching an API,
you care about the result and
you want to propagate that
result to state perhaps.
And so here, what we'll do is we're
passing that data down to the mutation,
and we call this a payload.
So contacts.commit takes in the name
of the mutation as well as a payload,
which is the specific piece of data that
you want your mutation to take note of.
And so we'll look at what
the mutation looks like, just so
you have a sense of what that means.
So here, we have our contacts.commit, so
our specific mutation
is called stock items.
And then we pass an inventory.stock,
which is the specific data
property from the fetch call that we
want our mutation to take note of.
And so again,
like in this particular contrived example,
inventory.stock is 40, so it's a number.
And so in the mutation itself,
we are creating that specific name of
the mutation, so it's called stockItems,
it takes in a state and a payload.
So previously,
we only talked about state, but
now we want to look at a payload as well.
So it states, payload,
there's no comma there, there should be.
And then we are updating the supplied
based on that payload because
the payload is telling us
what the defaults should be.
Previously, this was we hard coded it.
Of course, it's fairly hard coded, but
we are calling from an API and
grabbing that data.
And so state.supply = payload is just
setting the specific data property,
in this case supply to the payload
that we got from our database call.
And then again, if you look at
the component down on the bottom,
you'll see that nothing has changed.
We're still calling
the specific supply item, and
that is automatically getting changed
the moment the mutation happens.
So we're not doing anything different,
again, we're dispatching and so on.
Nothing much changes
from the component level,
the only thing that we changed
is the action and the mutation.
So I wanted to take a look at
this idea of a loading state.
So we talked a little bit about
asynchronous and synchronous actions,
it might be clear from the store itself
but not necessarily from the front end.
And sometimes you might want to notify the
front end when something's asynchronous
because it's kind of frustrating when
you click a button and nothing happens.
And even though something's happening
in the back end, if you're not telling
the user what's happening, they might
click the button multiple times.
They might decrement it
more than they want to,
they might get more items than
they actually asked for and so on.
Which might not be a problem but
it can be in certain instances.
So what we'll do is we'll
create a new state.
I'm gonna call the state isRestocking,
so it's just a concept of whether or
not it is in the state of being restocked.
I create a default state
called isRestocking false, so
the idea is that you're
not always restocking,
like in a default normal
state is restocking is false.
And it only gets changed when
the restocking action is happening, so
when that asynchronous
action is happening.
So what we'll do is we are essentially
fetching from the inventory.
So whenever we fetch from the inventory,
we want to tell the user like.
Hey, don't worry about it,
we're actually doing this thing,
We are in the midst of restocking,
so don't worry.
And then we want to change that also,
because when restocking is done,
we don't want the user to just
be in a constant loading state,
we want them to know that's
something has happened.
And so we need to change it appropriately,
and so
we can do that really easily
within asynchronous action.
Because in this case,
pingInventory is a sync,
which means that we know exactly
the sequence in which things happen.
So what we'll do is that on initial
right before we're even pinging
the specific API,
we'll change our restocking to true.
So that means that it's in
the state of being restocked, so
the action is about to happen, so we'll
pass true to the specific isRestocking.
And then within async,
you can also do a finally,
you can chain finally, which is sort
of the end of the entire method.
So at the end of this asynchronous action,
do this as a final action to sort of
like tear down anything else you need.
So in this case, the final action
when everything has completed is to
change isRestocking back to false because
you don't want it to be true forever.
So we will do a context.commit
there as well.
So we're committing twice, we're
committing once at the beginning right
before we actually make that fetch and
at the end when we are done with fetching,
and we got everything we needed.
So you see that happening
in both instances,
there's a context.commit isRestocking and
isRestocking again.
And here it becomes clear why exactly
you might wanna pass a payload,
obviously, it's contrived, because we're
not grabbing anything from anywhere.
But here we want to make sure that we're
passing in true and false appropriately,
so that the store knows exactly how
to handle that particular state.
And so what we can do is we can then
create a mutation that does something very
similar to stock items
that I showed you earlier.
Where we are essentially setting that
specific state property so isRestocking to
that payload, and the payload will
be a Boolean, so true or false.
So is restocking will always be true or
false depending on whatever
gets passed to it.
And then from the front end,
we can hook that in quite easily
with a computed property.
So the computed property
would be called isRestocking.
And then we'll just do
this.$store.state.the name of that
particular property or that state,
which is isRestocking.
And so the component is then
hooked up to the store, so
as things are mutating and changing,
you'll see that happen quite easily.
So this is the way in which you can
create a loading state within Vuex.